Daily Focus


Sunday Focus: Church Community

MORNING - Pray for church leaders to be faithful
“Do your best to present yourself to God as one approved, a worker who does not need to be ashamed and who correctly handles the word of truth.” (2 Timothy 2:15)
MORNING - Pray for preservation and perseverance
To him who is able to keep you from stumbling and to present you before his glorious presence without fault and with great joy… (Jude 24–25)
MORNING - Pray for God's presence
And he said, “My presence will go with you, and I will give you rest.” (Exodus 33:14)
EVENING - Pray for church leaders to be faithful
“Do your best to present yourself to God as one approved, a worker who does not need to be ashamed and who correctly handles the word of truth.” (2 Timothy 2:15)
EVENING - Pray for preservation and perseverance
To him who is able to keep you from stumbling and to present you before his glorious presence without fault and with great joy… (Jude 24–25)
EVENING - Pray for God's presence
And he said, “My presence will go with you, and I will give you rest.” (Exodus 33:14)

Monday Focus: Work and Productivity

MORNING - Pray for daily bread
Give us today our daily bread. (Matthew 6:11)
MORNING - Pray to work as unto the Lord
Whatever you do, work heartily, as for the Lord and not for men, knowing that from the Lord you will receive the inheritance as your reward. (Colossians 3:23–24) 
MORNING - Pray to commit your plans to God
Commit your work to the Lord, and your plans will be established. (Proverbs 16:3)
EVENING - Pray for favour
Let the favour of the Lord our God be upon us, and establish the work of our hands upon us; yes, establish the work of our hands! (Psalm 90:17)
EVENING - Pray to maintain priorities
Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you (Matthew 6:31–33)
EVENING - Pray for confidence and rest
Unless the Lord builds the house, those who build it labour in vain... It is in vain that you rise up early and go late to rest, eating the bread of anxious toil. (Psalm 127:1–2)

Tuesday Focus: Mission

MORNING - Pray that the gospel would speed ahead and be honored.
Finally, brothers, pray for us, that the word of the Lord may speed ahead and be honored, as happened among you. (2 Thessalonians 3:1)
MORNING - Pray for boldness in proclamation.
[Pray] at all times in the Spirit . . . and also for me, that words may be given to me in opening my mouth boldly to proclaim the mystery of the gospel. (Ephesians 6:18–19)
MORNING - Pray for the success of other missionaries.
I appeal to you, brothers, by our Lord Jesus Christ and by the love of the Spirit, to strive together with me in your prayers to God on my behalf, that I may be delivered from the unbelievers in Judea, and that my service for Jerusalem may be acceptable to the saints. (Romans 15:30–31)
EVENING - Pray for boldness amidst threats
Now, Lord, consider their threats and enable your servants to speak your word with great boldness. (Acts 4:29–31)
EVENING - Pray to be a living witness
You are the light of the world... Let your light shine before others, that they may see your good deeds and glorify your Father in heaven. (Matthew 5:14–16)
EVENING - Pray for those who are persecuted
Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness’ sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. (Matthew 5:10–12) 

Wednesday Focus: Family and Loved Ones

MORNING - Pray for protection from the evil one.
“Deliver us from evil.” (Matthew 6:13)
MORNING - Pray for love in the family
Therefore, as God’s chosen people, holy and dearly loved, clothe yourselves with compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness and patience. Bear with each other and forgive one another... And over all these virtues put on love, which binds them all together in perfect unity. (Colossians 3:12–14)
MORNING - Pray for the needs of family and loved ones to be met
And my God will meet all your needs according to the riches of his glory in Christ Jesus (Philippians 4:19)
EVENING - Pray that all goes well with loved ones
Beloved, I pray that all may go well with you and that you may be in good health, as it goes well with your soul. (3 John 1:2) 
EVENING - Pray for the comfort of loved ones
 The God of all comfort, who comforts us in all our troubles, so that we can comfort those in any trouble with the comfort we ourselves receive from God. (2 Corinthians 1:3–4) 
EVENING - Pray for spiritual knowledge for loved ones
We continually ask God to fill you with the knowledge of his will through all the wisdom and understanding that the Spirit gives. (Colossians 1:9–12)

Thursday Focus: Community and Nation

MORNING - Pray for local and global peace and prosperity
Seek the peace and prosperity of the city to which I have carried you into exile. Pray to the LORD for it, because if it prospers, you too will prosper. (Jeremiah 29:7)
MORNING - Pray for increased righteousness in your nation
Righteousness exalts a nation, but sin condemns any people. (Proverbs 14:34)
MORNING - Pray for fair governance and justice
But let justice roll on like a river, righteousness like a never-failing stream! (Amos 5:24)
EVENING - Pray to live at peace with neighbours
Live in harmony with one another... If it is possible, as far as it depends on you, live at peace with everyone. (Romans 12:16–18)
EVENING - Pray for God's influence over leaders
In the LORD’s hand the king’s heart is a stream of water that he channels toward all who please him. (Proverbs 21:1)
EVENING - Pray for the salvation of nations
May God be gracious to us and bless us... so that your ways may be known on earth, your salvation among all nations. (Psalm 67:1–4)

Friday Focus: Creation

MORNING - Pray to praise God for creation
The heavens declare the glory of God; the skies proclaim the work of his hands. (Psalm 19:1–4)
MORNING - Pray for God's will to be done
May your kingdom come. May your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. (Matthew 6:10)
MORNING - Pray for the global revelation of God's glory
 For the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. (Habakkuk 2:14)
EVENING - Pray to thank God for creaturely goodness
When I consider your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon and the stars, which you have set in place… Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth! (Psalm 8:3–9) 
EVENING - Pray for the renewal of creation
Let the heavens rejoice, let the earth be glad; let the sea resound, and all that is in it; let the fields be jubilant, and everything in them; let all the trees of the forest sing for joy. (Psalm 96:11–13) 
EVENING - Pray to humbly depend on God
Look at the birds of the air; they do not sow or reap or store away in barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them… Are you not much more valuable than they? (Matthew 6:26–30)

Saturday Focus: Personal Renewal

MORNING - Pray for strategic wisdom.
If any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask God, who gives generously to all without reproach, and it will be given him. (James 1:5)
MORNING - Pray for a mind of discernment.
And it is my prayer that your love may abound more and more, with knowledge and all discernment, so that you may approve what is excellent, and so be pure and blameless for the day of Christ. (Philippians 1:9–10)
MORNING - Pray for strength and endurance.
[We have not ceased to pray for you to be] strengthened with all power, according to his glorious might, for all endurance and patience with joy. (Colossians 1:11; cf. Ephesians 3:16)
EVENING - Pray for peace
And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. (Philippians 4:7) 
EVENING - Pray for God's leading
Search me, O God, and know my heart; test me and know my thoughts. See if there is any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting. (Psalms 139:23-24)
EVENING - Pray to seek the Lord
One thing I asked of the Lord; this I seek: to live in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to behold the beauty of the Lord, and to inquire in his temple. (Psalms 27:4)

Daily Collects


Thanksgiving

MORNING - Pray to exalt God
The Lord is my strength and my song,
and he has become my salvation; 
this is my God, and I will praise him, 
my father’s God, and I will exalt him. (Exod 15:1–2)
EVENING - Pray to bless the Lord
Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits—who forgives all your iniquities, who heals all your diseases, who redeems your life from the pit, who crowns you with steadfast love and mercy. (Psalm 103:1–5)

Forgiveness

MORNING - Pray for repentance
Have mercy on me, O God, 
according to your steadfast love; 
according to your abundant mercy 
blot out my transgressions. 
Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, 
and cleanse me from my sin! (Psalm 51)
EVENING - Pray for mercy
‘God, be merciful to me, a sinner!

Meditation

MORNING - Pray for Godly meditation
Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable to you, O Lord, my rock and my redeemer. (Psalms 19:14) 
EVENING - Pray for Godly meditation
Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable to you, O Lord, my rock and my redeemer. (Psalms 19:14) 

Benediction

MORNING - Pray to overflow with hope
May the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace as you trust in him, so that you may overflow with hope by the power of the Holy Spirit. (Romans 15:13)
EVENING - Pray to not fall
Now unto him that is able to keep you from falling, and to present you faultless before the presence of his glory with exceeding joy, to the only wise God our Saviour, be glory and majesty, dominion and power, both now and ever. Amen. (Jude 24–25)